# CS 171

## Homework 1

----------

### Question 1.1

The DOM Inspector directly displays the HTML syntax generated by the script of the source code for the table. Therefore, with the DOM Inspector, we can see all the elements and their attributes separately, rather than in functions and variables. 

Since the DOM Inspector also visually links the code to the elements on the page, we can easily find sources of a visual problem in the code. Therefore, this tool is helpful when we are testing possibilities of visualization. 

The HTML source code, on the other hand, helps us understand how we can efficiently layout a visualization. 

### Question 1.2

The HTML source code is generated and uses the original data, stored in the countries_2012.json document. 

### Question 2.1

Would you filter other columns from the table the same way? E.g. would you use checkboxes or any other HTML widget?

We can create intervals/categories for the continuous variables and then use checkbozes to sort the data. For instance, we can see if countries that have "high" GDP also have "high" populations.

### Question 3.1

Once again, we can have categories for GDP, life expectancy and population, although it would not be as helpful in finding new patterns. (Aggregating by continents also brought in the aspect of spatial proximity.) For example, for life expectancy, we can have the intervals "40-50", "50-60", "60-70" and "70-80," and then have two radio buttons, one titled "No Aggregation" and the other "By Life Expectancy." We could come to some conclusions about countries with low life expectancy and those with high life expectancy.

### Question 4.1

Each "years" holds an array of the years 1995 to 2012, each with their own array of GDP, life expectancy, top partners and population values. 

### Question 5.1

Since SVG is vector-based, we can more easily transform (meaning move, scale, rotate, etc.) your elements; HTML cannot. For example, we can scale a bar's width to respond to changes in the data. Using HTML means manipulating pixels, making adjustments to the actual element more efficient; we would have to recreate the element if using SVG. 

Another advantage of using SVG is that since it relies on files, we can update elements depending on events (using Javascript and CSS). For example, we can have different parts of a graph come together to make a whole if the user would like to see an aggregated result. On the other hand, HTML cannot dynamically react to events.

### Question 7.1

For example, we can visualize data on the “impact” of Harvard undergraduates on the lives of people living outside of United States, compared to measures of standard of living, etc. (Where are resources most needed? Where are resources going?)

### Question 7.2 

The time axis often cannot be shown effectively if we have many variables we would like to compare. 

### Question 7.3 

People can perceive things differently and the goal of a visualization might not be achieved for everyone. There are limits of cognition, which means that we cannot detect certain aspects of the data from a visualization. Moreover, the people generating the visualizations can purposely or unintentionally misleading graphs that do not convey the data appropriately.

### Question 7.4 

Data semantics help us structure our data and find meaning in each data object relative to what we want to know.

### Question 7.5 

Quantitative data can be compared based directly on their “values.” Categorical data cannot be compared based on their “values”; there is no relative scale of small to large. Ordinal data can be compared, but based on a ranking of their “values.”

### Question 7.6

Position, size, shape, orientation, value and motion are associative.

### Question 7.7 

Length and size, value/luminance/saturation and position are quantitative.
